Micro-RNAs and copy number changes: new levels of gene regulation in acute myeloid leukemia. Alkylating agents, topoisomerase II inhibitors, ionizing radiation, and other hematotoxins induce DNA damage in hematopoietic stem cells that results in lesions such as balanced and unbalanced chromosome rearrangements, -5/del(5q) and/or -7/del(7q), as well as other submicroscopic genetic lesions. Together with epigenetic alterations, these result in dysplasia, clonal expansion, and ultimately myeloid leukemia. Combinations of lesions are required to induce overt leukemia. Altering a small subset of signaling pathways leads to disruption of normal self-renewal, proliferation, differentiation, and apoptotic mechanisms that control the development of hematopoietic stem cells and their differentiation into mature effector cells. Recent studies have shown that cytogenetically normal (CN-) AML is quite heterogeneous at the molecular level. Patients with CN-AML harboring mutations in NPM1, FLT3, CEBPA, WT1 or expressing high levels of BAALC, ERG, or MN1 have distinctly different clinical outcomes. NPM1 mutations are independently associated with higher remission rates and longer disease-free and overall survival in AML. Copy number alterations (CNAs) are deletions or amplifications of single genes. CNAs have been found at the breakpoints of known chromosomal translocations. Fewer CNAs have been detected in AML than in pediatric ALL. Micro-RNAs (miRs) are non-coding small RNA molecules containing about 22 nucleotides that are typically encoded within introns. They hybridize to complementary mRNA targets and modulate protein expression by inhibiting translation and/or inducing degradation of target messenger RNAs. This new class of genes has recently been shown to play a pivotal role in malignant transformation. miRs are down-regulated in many tumors and thus appear to function as tumor suppressor genes. Distinctive genome-wide miR expression profiles have been associated with different subsets of AML. A miR signature that is associated with clinical outcome in patients with high-risk molecular features of AML (those who have FLT3-ITD or wild-type NPM1) has been reported. This subgroup constitutes approximately 65% of patients with CN-AML and one-third of all patients with AML &lt;60 years old. Down-regulation of the miR-181 family contributes to an aggressive leukemia phenotype through mechanisms associated with the activation of pathways of innate immunity mediated by toll-like receptors and interleukin-1beta.