 Hereditary hearing loss and deafness may be conductive, sensorineural, or a combination of both; syndromic (associated with malformations of the external ear or other organs or with medical problems involving other organ systems) or nonsyndromic (no associated visible abnormalities of the external ear or any related medical problems); and prelingual (before language develops) or postlingual (after language develops). Genetic forms of hearing loss must be distinguished from acquired (non-genetic) causes of hearing loss. The genetic forms of hearing loss are diagnosed by otologic, audiologic, and physical examination, family history, ancillary testing (e.g., CT examination of the temporal bone), and molecular genetic testing. Molecular genetic testing, available in clinical laboratories for many types of syndromic and nonsyndromic deafness, plays a prominent role in diagnosis and genetic counseling. Hereditary hearing loss can be inherited in an autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive, or X-linked recessive manner, as well as by mitochondrial inheritance. Genetic counseling and risk assessment depend on accurate determination of the specific genetic diagnosis. In the absence of a specific diagnosis, empiric recurrence risk figures, coupled with GJB2 and GJB6 molecular genetic testing results, can be used for genetic counseling. Treatment of manifestations: Hereditary hearing loss is managed by a team that includes an otolaryngologist, an audiologist, a clinical geneticist, and a pediatrician, and sometimes an educator of the Deaf, a neurologist, and a pediatric ophthalmologist. Treatment includes determining the appropriate habilitation option such as hearing aids and vibrotactile devices; cochlear implantation is considered in children over age 12 months with severe-to-profound hearing loss. Early auditory intervention through amplification, otologic surgery, or cochlear implantation is essential for optimal cognitive development in children with prelingual deafness. Surveillance: Sequential audiologic examinations to document stability or progression of the hearing loss and to identify and treat superimposed hearing losses, such as middle ear effusion. Agents/circumstances to avoid: Noise exposure. Evaluation of relatives at risk: Children at risk for hereditary hearing loss should undergo molecular genetic testing (if the family-specific mutation[s] are known) and screening audiometry.