Expression of miR-146a/b is associated with the Toll-like receptor 4 signal in coronary artery disease: effect of renin-angiotensin system blockade and statins on miRNA-146a/b and Toll-like receptor 4 levels. The TLR4 (Toll-like receptor 4) signal plays an important role in immunity in CAD (coronary artery disease). miR-146a/b (where miR is microRNA) regulates the TLR4 downstream molecules IRAK1 (interleukin-1-receptor-associated kinase 1) and TRAF6 (tumour-necrosis-factor-receptor-associated factor 6). It has also been reported that statins and RAS (renin-angiotensin system) inhibition and have anti-atherosclerotic properties. In the present study, we have investigated whether miR-146a/b was expressed with the TLR4 signal in CAD patients, and whether combined treatment with a statin and RAS inhibition might affect these levels. A total of 66 patients with CAD and 33 subjects without CAD (non-CAD) were enrolled. Patients with CAD were randomized to 12 months of combined treatment with atorvastatin and telmisartan [an ARB (angiotensin II receptor blocker)] or atorvastatin and enalapril [an ACEI (angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor)]. PBMCs (peripheral blood mononuclear cells) were obtained from peripheral blood at baseline and after 12 months. Levels of miR-146a/b, IRAK1 mRNA, TRAF6 mRNA and TLR4 mRNA/TLR4 protein were significantly higher in the CAD group than in the non-CAD group (all P&lt;0.01). Levels of miR-146a/b were positively correlated with IRAK1 mRNA and TRAF6 mRNA levels. After 12 months of treatment, these levels were markedly decreased in the ARB and ACEI groups, with the decrease in the ARB group being greater than that in the ACEI group (all P&lt;0.05). In our 12-month follow-up study, high levels of miR-146a and TLR4 mRNA/TLR4 protein at baseline were independent predictors of cardiac events. The present study demonstrates that combined treatment with an ARB and a statin decreases miR-146a/b and the TLR4 signal in CAD patients, possibly contributing to the anti-atherogenic effects of ARBs and statins in this disorder.