Hyaluronan-CD44 interaction promotes c-Src-mediated twist signaling, microRNA-10b expression, and RhoA/RhoC up-regulation, leading to Rho-kinase-associated cytoskeleton activation and breast tumor cell invasion. Dysregulation of microRNAs is observed in many cancers, including breast cancer. In particular, miR-10b appears to play an important role in tumor cell invasion and breast cancer progression. In this study, we investigated hyaluronan (HA)-induced CD44 (a primary HA receptor) interaction with c-Src kinase and the transcriptional factor, Twist, in breast tumor cells (MDA-MB-231 cells). Our results indicate that HA binding to CD44 promotes c-Src kinase activation, which, in turn, increases Twist phosphorylation, leading to the nuclear translocation of Twist and transcriptional activation. Further analyses reveal that miR-10b is controlled by an upstream promoter containing the Twist binding site(s), whereas ChIP assays demonstrate that stimulation of miR-10b expression by HA/CD44-activated c-Src is Twist-dependent in breast tumor cells. This process results in the reduction of a tumor suppressor protein (HOXD10), RhoA/RhoC up-regulation, Rho-kinase (ROK) activation, and breast tumor cell invasion. Treatment of MDA-MB-231 cells with PP2 (a c-Src inhibitor) or Twist-specific siRNAs effectively blocks HA-mediated Twist signaling events, abrogates miR-10b production, and increases HOXD10 expression. Subsequently, this c-Src/Twist signaling inhibition causes down-regulation of RhoA/RhoC expression and impairment of ROK-regulated cytoskeleton function (e.g. tumor cell invasion). To further evaluate the role of miR-10b in RhoGTPase signaling, MDA-MB-231 cells were also transfected with a specific anti-miR-10b inhibitor in order to silence miR-10b expression and block its target functions. Our results demonstrate that anti-miR-10b inhibitor not only enhances HOXD10 expression but also abrogates HA/CD44-mediated tumor cell behaviors in breast tumor cells. Taken together, these findings indicate that the HA-induced CD44 interaction with c-Src-activated Twist plays a pivotal role in miR-10b production, leading to the down-regulation of tumor suppressor protein (HOXD10), RhoGTPase-ROK activation, and tumor cell invasion. All of these events are critical prerequisite steps for the acquisition of metastatic properties by human breast cancer cells.