Signal transducer and activator of transcription 3-mediated regulation of miR-199a-5p links cardiomyocyte and endothelial cell function in the heart: a key role for ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes. Mice with a cardiomyocyte (CM)-restricted knockout of signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3-KO) develop spontaneous heart failure. We investigated the impact of STAT3-mediated regulation of microRNAs for pathophysiological alterations in the heart. MicroRNAchip and qRT-PCR analysis revealed elevated cardiac expression of miR-199a in STAT3-KO mice. Lentiviral shRNA-mediated STAT3-knock-down in neonatal rat CMs markedly increased miR-199a promoter activity and miR-199a levels indicative of a suppressive effect of STAT3 on miR-199a transcription. Up-regulated miR-199a in CM by pre-miR-199a transfection (pre-miR-199a-CM) reduced expression of components of the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS), i.e. the ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes Ube2g1 (mRNA and protein) and Ube2i (protein). Pre-miR-199a-CM or CM with siRNA-mediated down-regulation of Ube2i and Ube2g1 (siRNA-Ube2i/2g1-CM) displayed massive down-regulation of - and -myosin heavy chain expression associated with disrupted sarcomere structures. In addition, protein arginine methyltransferase I (PRMT-I) expression and asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA) synthesis were increased in pre-miR-199a-CM or in siRNA-Ube2i/2g1-CM. Increased ADMA in cell culture supernatant (SN) from pre-miR-199a-CM or siRNA-Ube2i/2g1-CM lowered nitric oxide (NO) bioavailability of rat cardiac endothelial cells while lowering ADMA concentration in CM SNs by the PRMT inhibitor arginine methyltransferase inhibitor 1 (AMI-1) (100 M) improved NO bioavailability. In STAT3-KO hearts Ube2i and Ube2g1 expression were markedly reduced. Human terminal failing hearts harbouring low STAT3 protein levels displayed increased miR-199a levels and decreased Ube2g1 expression. This study identifies a novel pathophysiological circuit in the heart between reduced STAT3 protein levels, increased miR-199a expression, and subsequent impairment of the UPS that disrupts CM sarcomere structure and impairs via the release of ADMA endothelial cell function.