Induction of miR-21 by retinoic acid in estrogen receptor-positive breast carcinoma cells: biological correlates and molecular targets. Retinoids are promising agents for the treatment/prevention of breast carcinoma. We examined the role of microRNAs in mediating the effects of all-trans-retinoic acid (ATRA), which suppresses the proliferation of estrogen receptor-positive (ER(+)) breast carcinoma cells, such as MCF-7, but not estrogen receptor-negative cells, such as MDA-MB-231. We found that pro-oncogenic miR-21 is selectively induced by ATRA in ER(+) cells. Induction of miR-21 counteracts the anti-proliferative action of ATRA but has the potentially beneficial effect of reducing cell motility. In ER(+) cells, retinoid-dependent induction of miR-21 is due to increased transcription of the MIR21 gene via ligand-dependent activation of the nuclear retinoid receptor, RAR. RAR is part of the transcription complex present in the 5'-flanking region of the MIR21 gene. The receptor binds to two functional retinoic acid-responsive elements mapping upstream of the transcription initiation site. Silencing of miR-21 enhances ATRA-dependent growth inhibition and senescence while reverting suppression of cell motility afforded by the retinoid. Up-regulation of miR-21 results in retinoid-dependent inhibition of the established target, maspin. Knockdown and overexpression of maspin in MCF-7 cells indicates that the protein is involved in ATRA-induced growth inhibition and contributes to the ATRA-dependent anti-motility responses. Integration between whole genome analysis of genes differentially regulated by ATRA in MCF-7 and MDA-MB-231 cells, prediction of miR-21 regulated genes, and functional studies led to the identification of three novel direct miR-21 targets: the pro-inflammatory cytokine IL1B, the adhesion molecule ICAM-1 and PLAT, the tissue-type plasminogen activator. Evidence for ICAM-1 involvement in retinoid-dependent inhibition of MCF-7 cell motility is provided.