Distinct expressions of microRNAs that directly target estrogen receptor  in human breast cancer. Estrogen receptor (ER)  is essential for estrogen-dependent growth, and its level of expression is a crucial determinant of response to endocrine therapy and prognosis in ER-positive breast cancer. Breast cancer patients show a wide range of ER expression levels and the levels of expression in individual patients change during disease progression and in response to systemic therapies. However, little is known about how the expression of ER in human breast cancer is regulated. Recently, several microRNAs (miRNAs) that directly target ER have been identified, and we previously demonstrated that miR-206 expression was downregulated in ER-positive human breast cancer. In this study, expression levels of miRNAs that directly target ER, including miR-18a, miR-18b, miR-22, miR-193b, miR-221/222 and miR-302c, were analyzed in human breast cancer samples by quantitative reverse transcription-PCR analysis. Correlations between the expression levels of these miRNAs and clinicopathological factors, including prognosis, were analyzed. miR-18a expression was much higher in ER-negative than in ER-positive tumors (P &lt; 0.0001), with the expression levels of miR-18a not differing in ER-positive breast cancer as a function of ER protein level. Surprisingly, the expression levels of miR-193b and miR-221 were significantly lower in ER-negative than in ER-positive tumors (P = 0.0015 and P = 0.0045, respectively), and the levels of these miRNAs gradually increased as ER protein expression increased. There was no statistically significant association between miR-22 and ER expression, and miR-302c expression was minimal in human breast cancer samples. Prognostic analysis showed that low miR-18b expression was significantly associated with improved survival in HER2-negative breast cancer, although miR-18b expression was not correlated with ER protein expression. Our results suggest that miRNAs that directly target ER have distinct roles in not only regulating ER but also regulating other target genes in human breast cancer.