Recombinant adenovirus carrying the hepatocyte nuclear factor-1alpha gene inhibits hepatocellular carcinoma xenograft growth in mice. Hepatocyte nuclear factor-1alpha (HNF1) is one of the key transcription factors of the HNF family, which plays a critical role in hepatocyte differentiation. Substantial evidence has suggested that down-regulation of HNF1 may contribute to the development of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). Herein, human cancer cells and tumor-associated fibroblasts (TAFs) were isolated from human HCC tissues, respectively. A recombinant adenovirus carrying the HNF1 gene (AdHNF1) was constructed to determine its effect on HCC in vitro and in vivo. Our results demonstrated that HCC cells and HCC tissues revealed reduced expression of HNF1. Forced reexpression of HNF1 significantly suppressed the proliferation of HCC cells and TAFs and inhibited the clonogenic growth of hepatoma cells in vitro. In parallel, HNF1 overexpression reestablished the expression of certain liver-specific genes and microRNA 192 and 194 levels, with a resultant increase in p21 levels and induction of G(2)/M arrest. Additionally, AdHNF1 inhibited the expression of cluster of differentiation 133 and epithelial cell adhesion molecule and the signal pathways of the mammalian target of rapamycin and transforming growth factor beta/Smads. Furthermore, HNF1 abolished the tumorigenicity of hepatoma cells in vivo. Most interestingly, intratumoral injection of AdHNF1 significantly inhibited the growth of subcutaneous HCC xenografts in nude mice. Systemic delivery of AdHNF1 could eradicate the orthotopic liver HCC nodules in nonobese diabetic/severe combined immunodeficiency mice. Conclusion: These results suggest that the potent inhibitive effect of HNF1 on HCC is attained by inducing the differentiation of hepatoma cells into mature hepatocytes and G(2)/M arrest. HNF1 might represent a novel, promising therapeutic agent for human HCC treatment. Our findings also encourage the evaluation of differentiation therapy for tumors of organs other than liver using their corresponding differentiation-determining transcription factor.