Aberrant expression of chromogranin A, miR-146a, and miR-146b-5p in prostate structures with focally disrupted basal cell layers: an early sign of invasion and hormone-refractory cancer? Our recent studies have suggested that prostate tumor invasion is triggered by autoimmunoreactions induced focal basal cell layer disruptions (FBCLD) that selectively favor monoclonal proliferation of the overlying progenitors or of a biologically more aggressive cell clone. As circulating chromogranin-A (CgA) levels are found to correlate with tumor progression and the status of hormone refractoriness, our current study attempted to assess whether CgA-positive cells would be preferentially distributed in epithelial structures with FBCLD. Paraffin-embedded specimens from 50 patients with organ-confined prostate cancer were subjected to double immunohistochemical analysis with monoclonal antibodies to basal cells and CgA. From each case, 3-5 randomly selected fields were digitally photographed and the photos were magnified 400% and the numbers of CgA-positive cells in epithelial structures with non-disrupted, focally disrupted, and lost basal cell layer were separately counted. The averaged number of cell for each category was statistically compared with the Pearson's Chi-square test. In addition, morphologically similar structures with and without CgA-positive cell clusters were microdissected from four selected cases and subjected to a comparison of differential micro-RNA expression levels. Our study revealed that, although isolated CgA-positive cells were seen in both the basal cell layer and the luminal cell population in all cases, only 8 cases (16%) harbored large clusters of CgA-positive cells that were concentrated in a given area, in which all or nearly all cells appeared to share a similar morphological and immunohistochemical profile. Microdissected epithelial structures with CgA-positive cell clusters exhibited a more than 5- and 7-fold lower expression of miR-146a and miR-146b-5p than their CgA-negative counterparts. As focal basal cell layer disruptions and the reduction or loss of miR-146a and miR-146b-5p has been documented to correlate with prostate tumor invasion and hormone refractoriness, our findings suggest that aberrant CgA expression in epithelial structures with FBCLD may represent an early sign of these events.