Direct regulation of microRNA biogenesis and expression by estrogen receptor beta in hormone-responsive breast cancer. Estrogen effects on mammary epithelial and breast cancer (BC) cells are mediated by the nuclear receptors ER and ER, transcription factors that display functional antagonism with each other, with ER acting as oncosuppressor and interfering with the effects of ER on cell proliferation, tumor promotion and progression. Indeed, hormone-responsive, ER+ BC cells often lack ER, which when present associates with a less aggressive clinical phenotype of the disease. Recent evidences point to a significant role of microRNAs (miRNAs) in BC, where specific miRNA expression profiles associate with distinct clinical and biological phenotypes of the lesion. Considering the possibility that ER might influence BC cell behavior via miRNAs, we compared miRNome expression in ER+ vs ER- hormone-responsive BC cells and found a widespread effect of this ER subtype on the expression pattern of these non-coding RNAs. More importantly, the expression pattern of 67 miRNAs, including 10 regulated by ER in BC cells, clearly distinguishes ER+, node-negative, from ER-, metastatic, mammary tumors. Molecular dissection of miRNA biogenesis revealed multiple mechanisms for direct regulation of this process by ER+ in BC cell nuclei. In particular, ER downregulates miR-30a by binding to two specific sites proximal to the gene and thereby inhibiting pri-miR synthesis. On the other hand, the receptor promotes miR-23b, -27b and 24-1 accumulation in the cell by binding in close proximity of the corresponding gene cluster and preventing in situ the inhibitory effects of ER on pri-miR maturation by the p68/DDX5-Drosha microprocessor complex. These results indicate that cell autonomous regulation of miRNA expression is part of the mechanism of action of ER in BC cells and could contribute to establishment or maintenance of a less aggressive tumor phenotype mediated by this nuclear receptor.