MicroRNA-26a Promotes Cholangiocarcinoma Growth by Activating -catenin. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) have been implicated in the development and progression of human cancers. We investigated the roles and mechanisms of miR-26a in human cholangiocarcinoma. We used in situ hybridization and quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction to measure expression of miR-26a in human cholangiocarcinoma tissues and cell lines (eg, CCLP1, SG231, HuCCT1, TFK1). Human cholangiocarcinoma cell lines were transduced with lentiviruses that expressed miR-26a1 or a scrambled sequence (control); proliferation and colony formation were analyzed. We analyzed growth of human cholangiocarcinoma cells that overexpress miR-26a or its inhibitor in severe combined immune-deficient mice. Immunoblot, immunoprecipitation, DNA pull-down, immunofluorescence, and luciferase reporter assays were used to measure expression and activity of glycogen synthase kinase (GSK)-3, -catenin, and related signaling molecules. Human cholangiocarcinoma tissues and cell lines had increased levels of miR-26a compared with the noncancerous biliary epithelial cells. Overexpression of miR-26a increased proliferation of cholangiocarcinoma cells and colony formation in vitro, whereas miR-26 depletion reduced these parameters. In severe combined immune-deficient mice, overexpression of miR-26a by cholangiocarcinoma cells increased tumor growth and overexpression of the miR-26a inhibitor reduced it. GSK-3 messenger RNA was identified as a direct target of miR-26a by computational analysis and experimental assays. miR-26a-mediated reduction of GSK-3 resulted in activation of -catenin and induction of several downstream genes including c-Myc, cyclinD1, and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor . Depletion of -catenin partially prevented miR-26a-induced tumor cell proliferation and colony formation. miR-26a promotes cholangiocarcinoma growth by inhibition of GSK-3 and subsequent activation of -catenin. These signaling molecules might be targets for prevention or treatment of cholangiocarcinoma.