Differential membrane type 1 matrix metalloproteinase substrate processing with ischemia-reperfusion: relationship to interstitial microRNA dynamics and myocardial function. Membrane type 1 matrix metalloproteinase (MT1-MMP) is critical to a number of proteolytic and profibrotic events. However, upstream regulation of MT1-MMP with myocardial ischemia-reperfusion remains poorly understood. MicroRNAs regulate post-transcriptional events, and in silico mapping has identified a conserved sequence in MT1-MMP for microRNA-133a. This study tested the hypothesis that changes in microRNA-133a regulation occur with myocardial ischemia-reperfusion, which contributes to time- and region-dependent changes in MT1-MMP activity and processing of MT1-MMP substrates. Yorkshire pigs (n=12) underwent ischemia-reperfusion (90 minutes ischemia and 120 minutes reperfusion), where regional preload recruitable stroke work (sonomicrometry), interstitial MT1-MMP activity (microdialysis), Smad2 abundance (immunoblotting), and interstitial microRNA-133a (polymerase chain reaction) were determined within the ischemia-reperfusion and remote regions. Human left ventricular fibroblasts were transduced with microRNA-133a and anti-microRNA-133a (lentivirus) to determine the effects on MT1-MMP protein abundance. With ischemia-reperfusion, regional preload recruitable stroke work decreased from steady state (139 20 mm Hg to 44  11 mm Hg, P&lt;.05) within the ischemia-reperfusion region. MT1-MMP activity increased in both regions. Phosphorylated Smad2 increased within the ischemia-reperfusion region. Both invitro and invivo interstitial levels of microRNA-133a decreased with ischemia and returned to steady-state levels with reperfusion. Invitro transduction of microRNA-133a in left ventricular fibroblasts decreased MT1-MMP levels. Modulation of MT1-MMP activity and microRNA-133a exportation into the myocardial interstitium occurred in the setting of acute myocardial ischemia-reperfusion. In addition, changes in microRNA-133a expression in left ventricular fibroblasts resulted in an inverse modulation of MT1-MMP abundance. Therefore, targeting of microRNA-133a represents a potentially novel means for regulating the cascade of profibrotic events after ischemia-reperfusion.