Micro-RNA30c negatively regulates REDD1 expression in human hematopoietic and osteoblast cells after gamma-irradiation. We recently demonstrated that a novel cell stress response gene REDD1 protects human fetal osteoblast cell line (hFOB) cells from -radiation-induced premature senescence. Here we show that levels of endogenous REDD1 are very low in human hematopoietic progenitor CD34+ cells regardless of radiation, but highly expressed in differentiated hematopoietic cells (14 day cultured CD34+ cells) in response to radiation, which might be associated with radiation tolerance of the latter cells. To further understand the mechanisms of radiation-induced damage in different cells, microRNA (miRNA)-arrays were performed using purified miRNAs from CD34+ and hFOB cells before and post-irradiation and real-time reverse transcription (RT)-PCR was used to validate the expression profiles of miRNAs in the radiation-damaged cells. The results indicate that -radiation downregulated 16 miRNAs in CD34+ cells and 14 in hFOB cells. Radiation-induced upregulation was observed for 15 miRNAs in CD34+ cells and 18 miRNAs in hFOB cells. The profiles of radiation-induced miRNA expression were completely different in CD34+ vs. hFOB cells. Radiation up-regulated miRNA (miR)-30b, miR-30c and miR-30d in CD34+ cells, whereas it inhibited miR-30c expression in hFOB cells. Since miR-30 has potential target sites located in the 3'untranslated region (UTR) of the REDD1 gene and radiation regulated miR-30c expression in both CD34+ and hFOB cells, we further explored the effects of miR-30c on REDD1 expression using miR-30c inhibitor and precursor (pre-miR-30c). The results show that pre-miR-30c transfection suppressed REDD1 expression in 14 day cultured CD34+ cells and hFOB cells and resulted in hFOB cell death. In contrast, inhibition of miR-30c expression significantly enhanced clonogenicity in CD34+ cells. Our data suggest that CD34+ and hFOB cells have different miRNA expression patterns after irradiation and miR-30c plays a key role in radiation-induced cell damage which might be through regulation of REDD1 expression.