BAMBI (BMP and activin membrane-bound inhibitor) protects the murine heart from pressure-overload biomechanical stress by restraining TGF- signaling. Left ventricular (LV) pressure overload is a major cause of heart failure. Transforming growth factors- (TGF-s) promote LV remodeling under biomechanical stress. BAMBI (BMP and activin membrane-bound inhibitor) is a pseudoreceptor that negatively modulates TGF- signaling. The present study tests the hypothesis that BAMBI plays a protective role during the adverse LV remodeling under pressure overload. The subjects of the study were BAMBI knockout mice (BAMBI(-/-)) undergoing transverse aortic constriction (TAC) and patients with severe aortic stenosis (AS). We examined LV gene and protein expression of remodeling-related elements, histological fibrosis, and heart morphology and function. LV expression of BAMBI was increased in AS patients and TAC-mice and correlated directly with TGF-. BAMBI deletion led to a gain of myocardial TGF- signaling through canonical (Smads) and non-canonical (TAK1-p38 and TAK1-JNK) pathways. As a consequence, the remodeling response to pressure overload in BAMBI(-/-) mice was exacerbated in terms of hypertrophy, chamber dilation, deterioration of long-axis LV systolic function and diastolic dysfunction. Functional remodeling associated transcriptional activation of fibrosis-related TGF- targets, up-regulation of the profibrotic micro-RNA-21, histological fibrosis and increased metalloproteinase-2 activity. Histological remodeling in BAMBI(-/-) mice involved TGF-s. BAMBI deletion in primary cardiac fibroblasts exacerbated TGF--induced profibrotic responses while BAMBI overexpression in NIH-3T3 fibroblasts attenuated them. Our findings identify BAMBI as a critical negative modulator of myocardial remodeling under pressure overload. We suggest that BAMBI is involved in negative feedback loops that restrain the TGF- remodeling signals to protect the pressure-overloaded myocardium from uncontrolled extracellular matrix deposition in humans and mice.