Attenuation of exogenous angiotensin II stress-induced damage and apoptosis in human vascular endothelial cells via microRNA-155 expression. Numerous studies have indicated that cells and tissues have means of blocking their response to continuous stress signals to protect themselves from damage. Overexpression of angiotensinII (AngII) in the renin-angiotensin system can cause vascular endothelial damage, but the mechanism of adjustment of the dynamic equilibrium remains unclear. In this study, we investigated whether microRNA-155 (miR-155) can suppress continuous AngII stress signals that would otherwise cause vascular endothelial damage. We isolated and cultured human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) and transfected one group of these with a mature miR-155 expression plasmid. Quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) and western blotting showed AngII type1 receptor expression to be decreased in miR-155-transfected HUVECs compared with untransfected cells. The MTT proliferation assay revealed that exogenous AngII suppressed proliferation of HUVECs in a concentration-dependent manner. When HUVECs were cultured in medium containing AngII at the half maximal inhibitory concentration (68.94ng/l) for 24h, qRT-PCR and western blotting showed that expression of the apoptosis inhibitor Bcl-2 in the HUVEC-AngII group was markedly lower than that in controls, but apoptosis-promoting factors (Bax, cytochromec, caspases-9 and -3) were not. Co-immunoprecipitation western blotting and immunofluorescence staining showed that exogenous AngII increased the phosphorylation and activation of extracellular signal related kinase (ERK)1/2. Exogenous AngII also influenced HUVEC migration and capillary tubule formation invitro. However, after transfection of HUVECs with miR-155 under the same conditions, expression of apoptosis-promoting factors and ERK1/2 phosphorylation were reduced significantly and HUVEC migration and capillary tubule formation were restored to some extent. Thus, miR-155 attenuated the effect of exogenous AngII-induced ERK1/2 activation to reduce HUVEC damage and apoptosis. Moreover, miR-155 maintained HUVEC migration and capillary tubule formation invitro.