Antagonistic function of the RNA-binding protein HuR and miR-200b in post-transcriptional regulation of vascular endothelial growth factor-A expression and angiogenesis. HuR, also known as Elavl1, is an RNA-binding protein that regulates embryonic development, progenitor cell survival, and cell stress responses. The role of HuR in angiogenesis is not known. Using a myeloid-specific HuR knock-out mouse model (Elavl1M KO), we show that HuR expression in bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMDMs) is needed to maintain the expression of genes enriched in AU-rich elements and U-rich elements in the 3'-UTR. In addition, BMDMs from Elavl1M KO mice also showed alterations in expression of several miRNAs. Interestingly, computational analysis suggested that miR-200b, which is up-regulated in Elavl1M KO BMDMs, interacts with myeloid mRNAs very close to the HuR binding sites, suggesting competitive regulation of gene expression. One such mRNA encodes vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-A, a major regulator of angiogenesis. Immunoprecipitation of RNA-protein complexes and luciferase reporter assays indicate that HuR antagonizes the suppressive activity of miR-200b, down-regulates miR-200b expression, and promotes VEGF-A expression. Indeed, Vegf-a and other angiogenic regulatory transcripts were down-regulated in Elavl1M KO BMDMs. Interestingly, tumor growth, angiogenesis, vascular sprouting, branching, and permeability were significantly attenuated in Elavl1M KO mice, suggesting that HuR-regulated myeloid-derived factors modulate tumor angiogenesis in trans. Zebrafish embryos injected with an elavl1 morpholino oligomer or miR-200b mimic showed angiogenesis defects in the subintestinal vein plexus, and elavl1 mRNA rescued the repressive effect of miR-200b. In addition, miR-200b and HuR morpholino oligomer suppressed the activity of a zVEGF 3'-UTR luciferase reporter construct. Together, these studies reveal an evolutionarily conserved post-transcriptional mechanism involving competitive interactions between HuR and miR-200b that controls angiogenesis.