miR-203 regulates cell proliferation through its influence on Hakai expression. Gene expression is potently regulated through the action of microRNAs (miRNAs). Here, we present evidence of a miRNA regulating Hakai protein. Hakai was discovered as an E3 ubiquitin-ligase that mediates the posttranslational downregulation of E-cadherin, a major component of adherens junctions in epithelial cells and a potent tumour suppressor. Recent data have provided evidence that Hakai affects cell proliferation in an E-cadherin-independent manner, thus revealing a role for Hakai in the early stages of tumour progression. Furthermore, Hakai is highly up-regulated in human colon adenocarcinomas compared to normal tissues. However, the molecular mechanisms that regulate Hakai abundance are unknown. We identified two putative sites of miR-203 interaction on the Hakai mRNA, in its 3'-untranslated region (UTR). In several human carcinoma cell lines tested, overexpression of a miR-203 precursor (Pre-miR-203) reduced Hakai abundance, while inhibiting miR-203 by using an antisense RNA (Anti-miR-203) elevated Hakai levels. The repressive influence of miR-203 on the Hakai 3'-UTR was confirmed using heterologous reporter constructs. In keeping with Hakai's proliferative influence, Anti-miR-203 significantly increased cell number and BrdU incorporation, while Pre-miR-203 reduced these parameters. Importantly, the growth-promoting effects of anti-miR-203 required the presence of Hakai, because downregulation of Hakai by siRNA suppressed its proliferative action. Finally, in situ hybridization showed that miR-203 expression is attenuated in colon tumour tissues compared to normal colon tissues, suggesting that miR-203 could be a potential new prognostic marker and therapeutic target to explore in colon cancer. In conclusion, our findings reveal, for the first time, a post-transcriptional regulator of Hakai expression. Furthermore, by lowering Hakai abundance, miR-203 also reduces Hakai-regulated-cell division.