miR-145 overexpression suppresses the migration and invasion of metastatic melanoma cells. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are post-transcriptional modulators of gene expression which play important roles in tumorigenesis and cancer metastasis. Since they are often highly deregulated in various types of cancer, miRNAs may be effective treatment targets. miRNA profiling studies of melanoma have led to the identification of several tumor suppressor miRNAs. One of these include miR-145, although functional data proving its specific function are limited. Therefore, in this study, we examined the expression levels of miR-145 in three melanoma cell lines (BLM, FM3P and WM793). Additional gain-of-function experiments revealed that miR-145 exerts an anti-proliferative effect in the primary, non-invasive melanoma cell line, WM793, whereas cell migration and the invasive potential of metastatic melanoma cells was suppressed following transfection with miR-145 mimics. In order to investigate the mechanisms by which miR-145 exerts its invasion suppressor function, we examined the expression level of target genes [fascin homolog 1 (FSCN1), myosinVa (MYO5A and SOX9] and that of an indirect target (RAB27A) following the overexpression of miR-145. The results showed that SOX9, MYO5A and RAB27A were not involved in the biological effects caused by miR-145 mimics. Surprisingly, we discovered that miR-145 in melanoma, in contrast to many other tumor types, does not necessarily act via the target, FSCN1, since the downregulation of FSCN1 did not inhibit cell proliferation or migration but, on the contrary, increased cell invasion in two out of the three melanoma cell lines examined. Our in vitro data is in accordance with previously reported in vivo data describing the low expression of FSCN1 in malignant melanomas when compared to dysplastic nevi, suggesting that the expression of FSCN1 decreases as the formation and progression stage of melanoma advances. In conclusion, our data provide evidence that miR-145 is an invasion suppressor in metastatic melanoma cells. Despite the fact that it remains unclear which genes or pathways are regulated by miR-145 in melanoma, miR-145 may serve as a useful therapeutic agent in melanoma when re-expressed in situ.