The overexpression of hypomethylated miR-663 induces chemotherapy resistance in human breast cancer cells by targeting heparin sulfate proteoglycan 2 (HSPG2). MicroRNAs are involved in regulating the biology of cancer cells, but their involvement in chemoresistance is not fully understood. We found that miR-663 was up-regulated in our induced multidrug-resistant MDA-MB-231/ADM cell line and that this up-regulation was closely related to chemosensitivity. In the present study, we aimed to clarify the role of miR-663 in regulating the chemoresistance of breast cancer. MicroRNA microarray and quantitative RT-PCR assays were used to identify differentially expressed microRNAs. Cell apoptosis was evaluated by annexin V/propidium iodide staining, TUNEL, and reactive oxygen species generation analysis. The expression of miR-663 and HSPG2 in breast cancer tissues was detected by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. The potential targets of miR-663 were defined by a luciferase reporter assay. Bisulfite sequencing PCR was used to analyze the methylation status. We found that miR-663 was significantly elevated in MDA-MB-231/ADM cells, and the down-regulation of miR-663 sensitized MDA-MB-231/ADM cells to both cyclophosphamide and docetaxel. The overexpression of miR-663 in breast tumor tissues was associated with chemoresistance; in MDA-MB-231 cells, this chemoresistance was accompanied by the down-regulation of HSPG2, which was identified as a target of miR-663. MDA-MB-231/ADM contained fewer methylated CpG sites than its parental cell line, and miR-663 expression in MDA-MB-231 cells was reactivated by 5-aza-29-deoxycytidine treatment, indicating that DNA methylation may play a functional role in the expression of miR-663. Our findings suggest that the overexpression of hypomethylated miR-663 induced chemoresistance in breast cancer cells by down-regulating HSPG2, thus providing a potential target for the development of an microRNA-based approach for breast cancer therapy.