[Differential expressions of miRNAs in kidney in puromycin aminonucleoside nephropathy model and intervened effects of Leizhi capsule]. To observe the differential expression characteristics of microRNAs (miRNAs) in renal tissues in puromycin aminonucleoside (PAN) nephritic model, and its relationship with key structural molecules of slid diaphragm (SD) nephrin and podocin and expression of skeleton protein synaptopodin; and to explore the in vivo mechanisms of Leizhi capsule (LZC) for ameliorating the expressions of nephrin, podocin and synaptopodin and reducing proteins by regulating the modal rat renal tissues miRNAs. Fifty male Wistar rats were randomly divided into five groups: the control group (A), the model group (B), the LZC-treated group (C), the multi-glycoside of Tripterygium wilfordii (GTW)-treated group (D) and the valsartan-treated group (E). Apart from group A, all of rats in the remaining groups are injected with PAN (100 mg x kg(-1)) through jugular veins to establish the PAN nephropathy model. On the 2nd day after PAN nephropathy model was established, group C was orally administered with LZC (5 mL x kg(-1) x d(-1)) in group C, group DGTW (10 mL x kg(-1) x d(-1)), and E group valsartan (7.5 mL x kg(-1) x d(-1)), while groups A and B were intervened with physiological saline, for 10 days. Body weight and 24 h urinary protein ration (Upro) in all rats were measured at day 0, 3, and 9. All rats were sacrificed at day 11 after the establishment of the model, and their blood and renal tissues were collected to observe such blood biochemical indicators including albumin (Alb), serum creatinine (Scr), blood urea nitrogen (BUN) and glomerular ultrastructure (podocyte foot process form) and expressions of dicer enzyme, nephrin, podocin and synaptopodin in renal tissues. Meanwhile, the differential expressional characteristics of miRNAs in renal cortex were analyzed by biochip assay. Additionally, the differential expressional volumes of rno-miR-23a, rno-miR-300-3p, rno-miR-24 and rno-miR-30c were measured by real-time PCR. Proteinuria, renal dysfunction, hypoproteinemia and podocyte foot process fusion were investigated in model rats induced by PAN. In renal tissues of PAN nephropathy model rats, dicer enzyme affected the expressions of nephrin, podocin and synaptopodin in podocytes, up-regulated the expressions of rno-miR-23a and rno-miR-300-3p, and down-regulated the expressions of rno-miR-24 and rno-miR-30c. The miRNAs with differential expressions included rno-miR-24, rno-miR-30c, rno-miR-23a and rno-miR-300-3p. LZC could improve the general state, proteinuria, serum BUN and podocyte foot process fusion of PAN nephropathy model rats, reduced the expressions of dicer enzyme, increased the expressions of nephrin, podocin and synaptopodin in podocytes, weakened the up-regulated rno-miR-23a and rno-miR-300-3p, and strengthened the down-regulated rno-miR-24 and rno-miR-30c in renal tissues. PAN in vivo impacts the expressions of miRNAs in renal tissues, intervenes the expressions of nephrin, podocin and synaptopodin in podocytes, damages podocyte structures and functions and generates proteinuria by means of differential expression of dicer enayme/miRNAs. LZC can reduce proteinuria in PAN nephropathy model rats. Its mechanism may intervene dicer enayme/miRNAs differential expression, regulate nephrin, podocin and synaptopodin in podocytes and improve podocyte structures and functions.