Decreased Levels of miR-224 and the Passenger Strand of miR-221 Increase MBD2, Suppressing Maspin and Promoting Tumor Growth and Metastasis in Mice. BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Little is known about functions of microRNA (miR) passenger strands (miR*), or their roles in tumor development or progression. We screened for miRs and miR* whose levels were altered in metastatic colorectal cancer (CRC) cells and human tumor samples, and investigated their targets and effects on cell function and tumor progression in mice. METHODS: We performed array-based profile analysis to identify miRs whose levels were increased more than 2-fold in metastatic (SW620) CRC cells, compared with non-metastatic (SW480) cells. Quantitative PCR, immunoblot, and in situ hybridization analyses were used to measure miRNA levels in CRC cell lines and human tumor samples. We used miRNA duplex mimics or inhibitors to increase and decrease levels of miRNA in CRC cells, and assessed their activities and ability to form metastatic xenograft tumors in nude mice. RESULTS: Levels of miR-221* and miR-224 were reduced in metastatic, compared with non-metastatic, CRC cells; levels in human tumor samples correlated inversely with tumor stage and metastasis to lymph nodes, as well as patient survival times. SW480 cells transfected with miR-221* or miR-224 inhibitors had increased motility in vitro, compared with SW480 control cells, and formed larger, more metastatic tumors following into mice. SW620 cells transfected with miR-221* or miR-224 mimics had reduced migration and motility in vitro and formed smaller tumors with fewer metastases in mice, compared with control SW620 cells. We identified the 3'UTR of MBD2 mRNA as a target of miR-221* and 281 miR-224. MBD2 silences the gene encoding Maspin, a suppressor of metastasis. In CRC cells, we found that miR-221* and miR-224 increase the expression of Maspin through MBD2 downregulation. CONCLUSION: In metastatic CRC cells, reduced levels of miR-221* and miR-224 increase levels of MBD2, thereby decreasing expression of the metastasis suppressor Maspin. Increased activities of miR-221* and miR-224 reduce growth and metastasis of CRC xenograft tumors in mice; these miRs might be developed as therapeutic reagents or biomarkers of CRC progression.